I really like the updated physical design of the iPhone 4. It's thinner and sexier in my opinion.
I really like the way the display and back surface go from edge to edge without a bezel for dirt and dust to collect.
This phone feels like it has been carved out of a solid block of glass. I love the feel of it in my hand.
It's really solid and easily passes the gadgeteer squeeze test. This baby doesn't flex, creak or crack when I squeeze it and there are no rattles when I shake it.
I'll just say that I've been using my phone without a case and have not had one dropped call in the 45 days that I've been using the phone.
I've been an AT&T customer for years and my call quality has pretty much sucked for all of those years.
It's not unusual to have clicks and the occasional outside call that bleeds in.
he number of bars go up and down for no apparent reason. I've had this with any and all GSM phones that I've ever used. Phones will go back and forth from 1 bar, to full bars and all bars in between, while sitting in the exact same spot. So go figure.
I like the individual volume buttons and find them easier to operate than the rocker switch that the previous iPhone versions used. The buttons are raised and have good tactile feedback, making them very easy to find and press with your thumb while in a call.
Good old Apple decided to go with a micro SIM card, which means that you'll (I'll) need an adapter if I wish to use the same SIM in a different GSM phone.
The previous iPhone had a great display, but the new iPhone 4's retina display is just plain gorgeous.
The iPhone remains my favorite finger friendly display.
I'm pretty happy with the image quality of this phone. The colors are vivid and the images are sharp.
Although I don't experience dropped calls, I often problems with clicking and bad audio quality.
Another thing that annoys me is that I can have full bars and not be able to check the temperature with the weather app or my stocks with the stock app.
As far as system performance, the iPhone 4 is very snappy. Apps load almost instantly.
I also have no real complaints about battery life.
So I pretty much love the hardware minus AT&T's special sauce.
Organizing your apps into folders is really easy to do.
I like this new feature, but I do wish that there was the ability to change the folder icon. As it is, it shows a teeny tiny icon view of several of the apps that it holds.
It's probably not going to be a surprise that I have a love / hate relationship with the iPhone 4.
I love the display, the camera and of course, the wide variety of quality applications.
That said, I am not a fan of AT&T's call quality and data quality issues in my area.
At the end of the day, I will happily recommend iPhone 4 as a capable and fun to use phone - IF the AT&T coverage in your area is good.
Once I pull it out of my pocket, the reception returns. I've never seen this issue with the three previous iPhones.
The iPhone 4 has so many more pixels that I can't see them individually with the naked eye.
Photos and videos are great, and text is sharp, but UI elements need to be updated. Only having five emails simultaneously visible is a shame on this screen.
But the display itself is still better. It has more pixels in a smaller space than all the other phones I've ever used. It's sharp.
But the iPhone is in more danger of being irreparably damaged than its predecessors.
Every touch feels more responsive than the 3GS, which was more responsive than the 3G.
There's a delay from a half-inch dead zone on the side of the phone. When I swipe from that edge, nothing registers. I try the same thing on older phones. Odd, this was there all along, in the 3G and 3GS, but I'm only noticing now because the bezel is gone and it's all glass.
Finally, a mass-market video calling device that's going to have enough built-in audience to actually have a chance at success. It's fun.
The iPhone has been capable of turn-by-turn directions since the 3G added a GPS chip. It's time for a better solution - from Apple.
The dual-microphone noise cancellation setup makes a huge difference for filtering ambient noises from a speakerphone.
Why would I edit on iMovie on a phone if I have to dump the resulting file onto a computer to upload at full-resolution anyway?
The iPhone 4 is smarter, choosing towers that can actually handle calls, rather than just the one with the strongest signal.
Even for a lover of ebooks, the size of the phone is too small to accurately represent a "book". It requires me to turn the page too often, like some iPad mini parody.
Added up over a year, I would probably save about seven hours of cumulative time not waiting for book pages to render, apps to load and photos to resize, compared to the 3GS.
The iPhone 4 is not as drop resistant as a rabbit.
Along with the smoother transitions thanks to the faster processor, every flip between programs is fluid.
Better than the 3GS, because the battery is bigger. Still, good thing I turned off Bluetooth.
The camera responds quicker than I'd expect - quicker than other cellphone cams.
The speakers themselves are more clear as well, but a little softer.
Everything is crisper, sharper, more angular.
Antenna problems, confirmed by Apple themselves, are the symptom of a problem that goes into the heart of Apple's product process.
Why am I changing the way I've held cellphones for the last decade to avoid a design issue?
I'm lucky to live in one of AT&T's well-covered areas. Those with mediocre reception to begin with see a bigger impact, documented, when they use the death grip.
It's the camera that counts, the camera that's with you when you get into a traffic accident, when someone's about to do something stupid, when you're doing something you've never done before.
The speed, the camera, the screen, the non-humpback, the video chatting. Once you have it, you can't give it up.
I can never hold the phone naturally because I'm afraid I'm getting a quarter of the speeds I was getting before.
If you have been using an iPhone 3GS before, the iPhone 4 is noticeably thinner.
The management of the internal volume is pretty amazing, and I'm not using that word lightly.
The industrial design is excellent, although the antenna issues tones it down a little.
Among the things that I really like in this design are the buttons: on/off, volume +/- are very easy to "feel" with the fingers and to use. 
Now this (almost) scratch-proof surface comes with one weakness: it is brittle.
The iPhone 4 feels incredibly dense and solid.
The additional memory is probably most useful to accommodate the new multi-task capabilities of the iPhone 4, but it might also bring some added performance to the system.
The A4 processor should also be faster than its predecessor (the phone does feel faster) but speed was usually not a real issue on the 3GS, so the difference is not eye-popping.
I have played with the black bumper, and I sure wish that I won't have to use it. It is probably efficient at what its doing, but it hides the steel band, which is one of the best feature of the phone, I think.
The Retina display is one of the major improvements of the iPhone 4 design.
With 960x640 pixels, it has a higher resolution than competitors (800x480) which is great because higher resolution directly impacts the usability of every text-based application (web, email, eBooks...), and the quality of video playback (details...).
In practical terms, the Retina Display brings a slightly better user experience than 800x480 displays, especially when there is small text involved.
The jump forward from the iPhone 3GS is simply gigantic, also because the 3GS was a little bit short in pixels.
In my opinion, the iPhone 4 does better with the direct sunlight test when compared to recent high-end phones like the Droid Incredible (OLED) or the EVO 4G (LCD).
Anyway, I would give the advantage to the iPhone Retina Display over its immediate competitors.
The iPhone 4's contrast (black look really black) and saturation are not as good as the Droid Incredible's OLED display.
Upon launching the phone app, it's very easy to dial a number, call a favorite, look at the recent calls, find a contact or check on voicemail.
The phone stuff is well covered, and not much has changed since the previous iPhone.
I don't expect anyone to have issued with the basic dialing and calling mechanism.
When the user grabs the phone, the human body effectively connects the two antennas (wifi & 3G), which impacts the reception quality (a.k.a "death grip").
Still, this seems silly that it wasn't caught during the design process.
The method used to display the reception "bars" has been "completely wrong" according to Apple itself.
I have witnessed the "death grip" myself, and while I have yet to drop a phone call because of it, I have seen my phone data download speed going from 1.3Mbps download down to zero.
The death grip will happen in areas where coverage is already weak so it's hard to to reproduce it in a consistent way but it does exist and it needs a hardware fix.
Apple has notoriously told users to "hold their phones differently" or to use a case that will prevent the human body from causing electrical interferences.
In any case, this is something that Apple will have to improve/fix in an upcoming design refresh - "don't hold it that way" is just not good enough.
Drama aside, the issue is not as bad as it sounds: at the moment, I have not been in a situation where I missed calls, but if data starts to get slow, this is the first thing that comes to mind: "try holding it differently".
I recommend you to either wait for the problem to be 100% fixed, or just to go for it, because from all the field reports, the phone is actually very much usable.
Despite the Death Grip issue, the data speed is much better when compared to the iPhone 3GS.
When using the Cisco broadband speed test, the iPhone 4 is always noticeably faster (about 30%) than the 3GS.
The call audio quality is very decent, although I find it to be on the soft side.
The iPhone virtual keyboard is very good for two reasons: 1/ it is very responsive (especially when compared to the HTC Sense one), 2/It is not visually noisy.
The software does a good job of guessing where you were trying to tap.
At this point, I think that the iPhone has the best and most consistent copy/paste interface.
It's not news that the iPhone does provide an excellent web browsing experience, but the high-resolution display does make it that much better.
And when you zoom, I like the fact that things don't jump around like they do on Android: Android browsers tend to wrap the text around by default, which is not fundamentally bad, but it does make the page content move around, so it's hard to choose a point to zoom towards.
There have been reports of issues with the proximity sensor not working properly during calls.
In this 4th iteration of the iPhone, Apple has managed to include a larger battery, which is simply the best way to tackle the energy issue at this point.
The net result is an awesome battery life of about 2 days (48 hours) of normal use for me (including sleep time) - read the "context" paragrah to know what "normal use" means to me. 
The iPhone 4 will easily hold during an very busy day, and if I use it only casually, it can last a couple of days before finally shutting down.
I wish that the iPhone had a power widget that lets me easily manage power features (GPS, WIFI, BT, 3G, Brightness) like Android has.
This would make things even better, but at this point, it is fair to say that the iPhone is the king of the hill in terms of battery life.
Overall, the email experience is very good (except for the lower-speed typing), and the ability to arrange emails per thread can be useful if a conversation is spread out overtime.
I would rank the iPhone second, after Blackberry in terms of email efficiency.
Despite all the criticism that it is taking for being big and slow, iTunes is a good companion to the iPhone.
I would really love to be able to use a partition as a generic USB storage. It seems like it should be possible to do so, without creating any security issues.
Tethering works great, but now that the unlimited data plan from AT&T is gone (for new subscribers), it looks like you should only use it casually.
The new camera and the LED flash are both a very good upgrade.
I found the photos taken with the iPhone 4 to be very high-quality (for a mobile), especially those in low-light.
The LED flash can also be used as a Flashlight, which is really cool (there's an app for that).
The iPhone 4 is the first phone (that I have reviewed) that actually records good 720p videos.
Anyway, I am very impressed with the video recording quality of the iPhone 4 - including in dim lighting.
It's great to capture 720p videos, but the iPhone 4 doesn't let you upload 720p videos directly to YouTube. Instead, you have to retrieve the video on a computer and upload it from there. That kills the fun.
From that perspective, the iPhone 4 is about 30% faster than the iPhone 3GS.
What I do know is that it provides a comparable experience, with a seemingly superior framerate, so the conclusion is that the iPhone 4 ranks among the top hardware platform when it comes to 3D.
The iPhone 4 boots in boots in 27 seconds.
When put to use, this should be enough to satisfy the large majority of users, but I'm still waiting for apps like Skype to fully use multi-tasking.
There's less time spent closing and opening the apps as their "current state" will simply be saved, to be quickly re-activated later - this is much better than a complete shut down and relaunch.
This is not "true" multi-tasking, so you will be hearing people argue against its limitations, but on the other hand, those trade offs allow the iPhone 4 to have a better battery life and I'm sure that this is something that's more important to most users than "true" multi-tasking, for the sake of it.
A corner case for example, is that video playback will stop as soon as you switch to another task, so if you're using a music video clip to actually "listen" to music, the audio will stop too.
the iPhone photo gallery remains of of the best photo gallery, along with the Zune HD photo gallery.
Sharing photos via email/MMS is easy, but there is no Facebook sharing directly from the photo app.
Music is pretty much a solved problem.
The iPhone 4 is an excellent video player, and so far, it has been able to play all the MP4 files that I had on hand. 
The playback quality is perfectly smooth, with high framerates (30fps).
The high-resolution display works wonderfully and the end-result is sharper than the Droid Incredible for example, but when I showed the side by side view to "non-techies", most don't spot the difference in sharpness, but they see that the colors look different (it always does).
The speaker audio quality is good, even if it's not loud enough (it never is, really).
With WiFi, Youtube HD movies are smooth, fluid and beautiful, there's no question about that.
However, over 3G, the streaming will happen in low-resolution mode even if the phone's raw bandwitdh would be capable of streaming a higher-resolution video.
Outside of a hotspot youtube looks actually pretty bad.
The "death grip" issue is having a real effect on data download speeds.
AT&T's network could also be better.
I would like to be able to kill all the apps in one click in the multitask menu.
I hope that an unlimited option will return for power users.
After using large display touch phones like the HTC EVO 4G or the Motorola Droid X, I'm thinking that a larger 4.3" iPhone would be *fantastic* to use.
This is probably blasphemy in Cuppertino, but believe me there's a big crowd out there that would love to have an iPhone with a physical keyboard.
Facetime is very fun to use.
Note that FaceTime does not use wireless minutes, so we're talking about free calls here, including international (FaceTime) calls: I tried placing a FaceTime call to Europe.
the good news is that Apple will let other services connect to FaceTime, so it's not impossible that Fring, Skyp, Yahoo IM or MSN would one day work with FaceTime.
FaceTime brings quality and simplicity, and video-calls actually look very good - at no extra cost.
Look at it any way you want, today, on average, apps on iPhone are better.
With the Retina Display, iBooks is actually usable on the iPhone.
iOS also supports PDF files natively, so PDF attachement in emails will open nicely.
The iPhone 4 is an excellent smartphone, the best one in fact.
his is quite a step up from the iPhone 3GS, thanks to the display and the many improvements in the OS.
To be honest, when it arrived, it was somewhat of a "meh" moment.
Despite the brand-new form factor, it felt like just another updated version of the iPhone.
Initial reactions aside, after using it for two days, the iPhone 4.0 really grew on us to the point where we didn't want to go back to our 3GS.
For starters, the increased screen resolution and performance in daylight is too good to ignore.
Compared to other smart phone screens, everything is so much crisper on the iPhone 4.
Battery life not only met, but exceeded our expectations.
In our test, only constant use of GPS navigation programs will kill the battery quickly -- so if you're using the i4 to replace your TomTom or Garvin unit, don't forget the car charger!
In fact, we've complained in the past that we are tired of mashing the home button as the primary way to navigate iOS (we love multiple buttons on Android phones), but thanks to the speed of the iPhone 4, you start to love the efficiency of using just one button for a lot of functions.
We have run Internet speed tests side by side with the HTC EVO 4G, and the iPhone was beating the EVO in upload test speeds -- and coming damn close to matching 4G speeds.
We like the look of new phone; the glass on both sides and stainless steel band all around makes it look like a luxury item.
But aesthetics and ergonomics are two different animals -- and honestly, we don't like the way the i4 feels in your hand  The weight of the phone feels great, but palming it to make a call, you notice how uncomfortable the square edges are.
In short: if you hold your iPhone 4.0 certain way -- i.e. connect two antennas with your hand on the left side of the phone -- that will cause antenna attenuation, with a signal strength drop of up to 24dB. 
But the bottom line is, the "death grip" DOES causes antenna attenuation, which results in dropped calls and lost internet connections, and was a noticeable problem during our review.
Up to this point, the response from Apple on the issue has been less than stellar, either blaming users for holding their iPhones wrong, claiming that signal attenuation is part of any phone, or shrugging "oops, our signal strength algorithm is wrong."
Do not get an iPhone 4 until we know more about the reception issues.
Perhaps the most notable change with the new iPhone is the drastic industrial design overhaul -- Apple seems to have completely rethought its strategy on how the phone should look and feel, and the results are nothing if not striking.
In his WWDC keynote, Steve Jobs likened the design of the iPhone 4 to that of a "beautiful, old Leica camera," and as we've said before, he wasn't off the mark.
From the design aesthetic through to the actual build process, Jony Ive and his team have reset what we expect in an iPhone, coming up with something that clearly harkens back to the retro-future Braun designs of Dieter Rams.
The effect is clean but not simple, and Apple has added little details, like altered volume buttons (what used to be a rocker is now separated into circular clickers labeled + and -), and notches in that metal band which serve to improve radio connections (more on that in a minute).
It feels great in your hand, with good heft, although it might take a little time to get used to the lack of a rounded back if you're coming from the 3G or 3GS.
The 3GS now feels cheap and chubby by comparison, and even a phone like the HTC Droid Incredible -- which just came out -- seems last-generation.
Overall, the iPhone 4 outclasses pretty much every smartphone on the market in terms of industrial design.
And it's not just the way the phone looks; the materials feel good -- premium -- in your hands.
The phone is definitely snappier than the 3GS, so we're not about to volley complaints just yet -- in particular, graphics seemed to render faster, and overall responsiveness was slightly higher, though admittedly, it wasn't blowing the doors off the joint.
It's certainly faster, but the 3GS wasn't hurting on speed to our eyes, so it's not as wildly noticeable a leap as the 3G to the 3GS.
Well in our testing, we had far, far fewer dropped calls than we experienced on our 3GS.
Let's just say that again: yes, the iPhone 4 does seem to alleviate the dropped call issue.
There have been some debates as to whether or not this argument holds water, but we can tell you this: to our eyes, there has never been a more detailed, clear, or viewable screen on any mobile device.
Not only are the colors and blacks deep and rich, but you simply cannot see pixels on the screen.
Text rendering is incredibly clear and clean -- webpages that would be line after line of pixelated content when zoomed out on a 3GS (say, Engadget or the New York Times) are completely readable on the iPhone 4, though the text is beyond microscopic.
It's impressive, and doubly impressive when you look at higher-res graphics or watch 720p video on the phone -- the detail in moving images is particularly striking.
Because Apple is using IPS and LED technology for its screen, the iPhone 4 is mercifully visible in full sunlight, and performance in low light and at extreme viewing angles are favorable.
Overall, you simply won't find a better display on a phone, and that's not just lip service.
So Apple's using a newer backside-illuminated sensor that's more sensitive to light in addition to upping those megapixels -- and we must say, pictures on the iPhone 4 look stunning.
ur shots looked good right out of the gate, with few problems when it came to focusing or low light.
With the flash on, we managed decent if somewhat blown out results (fairly common with smaller LED flashes) though impressively, the iPhone 4 was usually able to take completely useable and even handsome photos in fairly low light without the flash.
Autofocus worked well in most situations, and we were actually able to get some impressive looking macro shots (see the flowers and Penny below).
In general, we'd have no trouble using the iPhone 4's camera as a stand-in for a dedicated camera.
Not only did it take beautiful shots, but the A4 and iOS 4 combo have considerably sped up the time it takes to snap pictures -- it's now almost instantaneous.
As far as video goes, we were definitely impressed by the 720p capture, though there are stability issues with the lens and the all-too-familiar "jellyvision" CMOS issues that tend to rear their head if you're not holding the phone very steady.
Beyond making the phone considerably and consistently louder in both places, the clarity of the iPhone 4 is noticeably improved from the previous generation.
If you read our review, then you know that we thought Motorola's original Droid had some of the best sounding components we've heard on a phone, and the new iPhone definitely gives them a run for the money.
Even though sirens were wailing behind us and we were surrounded by chatty shoppers, it was easy to hear our party on the other end, and they could hear us perfectly (unless we were lied to).
Here's the thing -- this may not be "true" multitasking for a lot of us, but it amounts to multitasking for most of us.
Fast app switching is essentially like toggling between "paused" applications. This combined with Apple's new app switcher (double tap the home button to bring up your most recently used apps) destroys that annoying iPhone feeling of going in and out and in and out.
More than once we had video freeze on us, and we had one fully dropped call because someone went out of the WiFi range, but hey... you need to be in range for even the most basic tasks, so we can't fault Apple too much for that.
What's nice about FaceTime is that unlike Qik or other third-party options for something like the EVO, there's no setup here and it's completely integrated into the dialer of the phone -- meaning the only hangup is whether or not you have decent WiFi.
Yes, we're a little numb to the PR speak about how game changing it is, but there's still something deeply sci-fi about dialing up a friend and being able to hold this thing in your hand and have a video chat.
We were a little surprised by the fact that you can only mute the audio on your calls; if you want the video off, you need to cover the lens in the old fashioned way -- with your hands.
We think that coupled with active development for clients on lots of platforms (not just the iPhone) will make FaceTime much more interesting -- it's a curiosity right now, but it could be something else entirely with a little time and elbow grease.
We're happy that Apple has seen the light and included something like this in iOS 4, and the implementation is elegant enough, but it would have been nice to store more than 12 items at a time.
Among the major improvements in iOS 4 are a unified inbox and threaded messaging (finally!) -- both of which have made dealing with email on the iPhone a considerably more enjoyable experience.
We still think that the mail client is lacking in comparison to Gmail, but that has more to do with our addiction to Gmail than anything else, we suspect.
Overall, Mail feels much more complete now, and Apple has solved the same problem in Mail that it had with app switching -- that feeling of constantly jumping into and out of your inboxes.
We found it to be extremely capable for fast edits, though everything is pretty sandboxed here, so while you do have the most basic editing tools, things like splitting a clip can be a little bit of a hassle.
We're at version 4 of this OS, and we're still plagued by these intrusive, productivity-freezing alerts.
The other thing that's driving us crazy is the lack of widgets.
We'll admit that it's better now that fast app switching is in play, but we'd still like that weather icon to actually show us the temperature where we live.
On that note, we've actually seen the iPhone 4 tossed with and without a bumper across a room (one hit a wall) with no issue, and we dropped ours pretty hard from about two feet up onto tile with nary a scratch.
The battery life on the iPhone 4 has been outstanding thus far, exceeding our expectations for longevity during testing.
In fact, we managed to squeeze more than 38 hours -- yes, 38 hours -- of life out of a single charge using the phone as we normally would.
Once the rest of the team has their iPhones in hand, we'll do some hardcore battery life testing and see what we come up with, but we think under pretty active use, the iPhone 4 blows Apple's previous generation phone out of the water, and makes a lot of the competition look downright needy.
We're not going to beat around the bush -- in our approximation, the iPhone 4 is the best smartphone on the market right now.
The combination of gorgeous new hardware, that amazing display, upgraded cameras, and major improvements to the operating system make this an extremely formidable package.
But when it comes to the total package -- fit and finish in both software and hardware, performance, app selection, and all of the little details that make a device like this what it is -- we think it's the cream of the current crop.
For the record, we never experienced any antenna issues!
The SIM card slot is concealed nicely along the right side of the phone while the front and back panels of the iPhone 4 ooze with glossy swank.
While the Captivate's screen technology was top-notch in many scenarios, the Apple iPhone 4's Retina display experience was overall the most realistic and lifelike display we've ever encountered in the smartphone world, and needs to be experienced to be believed.
We used FaceTime and were satisfied with how clear the subject was and the refined motion.
We loaded Need for Speed on the iPhone 4 and Rolling Thunder on the Samsung Captivate and iOS 4 proved to be better optimized for such a task than Android 2.1.
Apple's dual-mic noise suppression led to a background-free talk experience, even by a busy road.
The Apple iPhone 4's camera is one of its feature attractions.
We would have liked a nice suite of manual controls to go with this nice sensor, but Apple's aim is simplicity, and for a camera that can point, tap, and shoot with great results nine out of ten times, the iPhone 4's camera is still great in terms of image quality.
That back-illuminated CMOS sensor rocked the Casbah in video mode.
Between the iPhone 4's image quality, beautiful Retina display, Web chat capability, multitasking in the revamped iOS 4, delicious build quality, and Roadrunner-quick operation, this is as close as you can get to the top of the entertainment totem pole.
But we didn't like the same proprietary Ringtone/Notification corner we were backed into, and feel that we should have the choice to set a Legend of Zelda magic sound every time we get an email or edit our own version of the Reading Rainbow theme as our ringtone.
Apple should also have done a better job at giving iOS 4 a boost into the future as far as Web service integration is concerned.
Naturally, the iPhone 4's much asked for features are as important as any for devoted iPhone users, and as such, it's a great addition to the smartphone market for many people (along with the $100 iPhone 3GS 8GB).
If you're looking for a top-notch entertainment device, we can safely recommend the iPhone 4, but if you're looking for the latest and greatest smartphone, you won't necessarily find it in the iPhone 4.
As I run through the list of the iPhone 4's new features, I am once again tempted to crank up my cynicism generator and note that most these items are features we've seen before on other phones: things like a high-definition display, an LED flash, a forward-facing camera and the ability to do video conferencing.
For the first time since 2007, I feel as though the device I'm carrying isn't merely an improved iPhone, but a truly new one.
The iPhone 4 feels as though someone sat down, cracked his or her knuckles, and decided that they were going to design and construct the hell out of this thing.
Not so; the iPhone 4 feels terrific in your hand.
It has a positive and reassuring heft as you root it out of a jacket pocket.
The iPhone 4 represents a radical new design. I've never seen a phone that even comes close to this.
Before I tell you what happened to this phone, I should point out that my brother tech columnist Walt Mossberg over at the Wall Street Journal dropped his prerelease iPhone 4 "several times from a few feet onto a hard surface with no problem."
Ed Baig over at USA Today said that "an Apple executive dropped it in front of me. The phone was undamaged."
First, to indicate that the iPhone 4 is indeed designed to be very tough, and in particular, that if Apple was willing drop one in front of a reviewer, then they must be pretty confident about the iPhone 4's durability.
And secondly, to make myself feel a little better about the fact that I accidentally dropped and broke Apple's loaner iPhone 4 about 10 hours after unboxing it (see the accompanying gallery).
This, and conversations with other iPhone 4 users, has left me convinced that the iPhone 4 is (at the very least) no less durable than any other consumer smartphone, despite its radical new design.
I noticed something odd with the iPhone from almost the moment I first powered it up: my cell signal was fluctuating.
If I bridge the gap between the two antennas at the bottom-left corner of the iPhone, it somehow interferes with the performance of the cell antenna.
Quite the opposite; in my experiments, I found that there was just one position in which the signal degrades ...and it's not even how I normally hold a phone.
Even on AT&T's 3G network, this phone is an utter scorcher compared to the iPhone 3GS.
After running the SpeedTest app on both an iPhone 4 and a 3GS eight times in the same location ten minutes apart and throwing out the highest and lowest test results, I discovered that the iPhone 4's average download speed was 15 percent faster than the 3GS.
The iPhone 4 is 4.4 times faster than its predecessor when uploading.
Raw speed aside, the iPhone 4 is noticeably better at acquiring and maintaining a cell signal than its predecessor.
Thanks to an upgraded GPS chip, the iPhone 4 locks onto a GPS signal much more quickly than the 3GS.
Sometimes when you look at the iPhone 4's screen, you don't know what you're looking at. The dots aren't "barely perceptible" ... they're imperceptible.
In an optimal environment, looking at a photo - or even a paused frame from Pixar's "Up" - is eerily like looking like a large film transparency on a light table ... an illusion that's enhanced by the fact that the surface of the screen is laminated directly to the underside of the iPhone's front glass.
Obviously, watching movies and viewing pictures on the iPhone 4 is up on a whole separate level.
The upgraded display is one of the features that redefines the iPhone for me.
This will read as a backhanded compliment, but I'll hold my nose and forge ahead anyway: the iPhone 4 is the first cameraphone that earns the honor of being thought of as "a real camera, with some limitations" as opposed to "a great cameraphone."
I love the iPhone 4's camera.
First, when you give it a challenging scene in which the camera needs to either underexpose slightly and lose some shadow detail or overexpose and blow out a highlight, it'll blow out a highlight nearly every time.
The bigger problem is the iPhone 4's easily-bamboozled automatic white balance system.
The camera appears to have great difficulty dealing with two competing light sources when they're of different colors.
You can blame the software, blame the hardware, or blame your shaky grip ... whatever the reason, iPhone 4 video tends to be very jittery unless you take pains to keep the camera steady while you shoot and you try very hard not to move around.
 It can handle a nearby, centered subject very well, but any background room noise will quickly collapse into an annoying waterfall of vuvuzuela-like buzzing in the recording.
The iPhone's new HD video feature certainly doesn't signal a death knell for conventional video cameras ... not even for the popular Flip cameras
Editing video is exceptionally-well suited to a multitouch OS; it's a snap to just drag in clips from your video library and push and pull them together like lumps of clay.
But with the iPhone's FaceTime feature, mobile video chat isn't a stunt feature that you'll play with once or twice and then completely ignore.
It just plain works ... so long as your friends and relatives have iPhone 4's, that is.
The iPhone 4's battery life is just fine.
The new iPhone adds a noise-canceling mic that has a definite positive impact on sound quality.
Volume and clarity are Adequate when using the iPhone's speakerphone, but it's still about one click or two too soft.
But the new iPhone 4 hardware coupled with the new features of iOS 4 elevate the iPhone's game considerably.
It shares so much DNA with the iPad - including its actual CPU, Apple's own A4 - that at times, it feels like a mini-iPad.
It's just superb next iteration of a phone that was pretty fab to begin with.
It seems to beg for high expectations.
All in all it's slimmer and slicker than the iPhone 3GS it replaces, and neatly distinct from much of its rivals on the market.
Best of all, perhaps, it's very obviously a new handset; the 3GS came in for some criticism by virtue of its being physically identical to the 3G, leaving those who had upgraded with no visible sign that they'd done so.
Turn the handset on, however, and you all but forget the physical design: Apple's so-called Retina Display is eye-wateringly impressive, setting a new bar in smartphone screens performance.
Specs aside, the iPhone 4's display is frankly the best mobile display on the market so far.
Even the basic iOS4 homescreen, familiar now to anyone with an iPhone 3G or 3GS, looks rejuvenated, with icons crisp and detailed.
We've a feeling Apple buyers are used to the absence of, say, a microSD card slot, and we're not entirely sure where on the iPhone 4 it could have been accommodated, but it's something to bear in mind if you're wanting to take advantage of the Retina Display's excellence at playing high-bitrate video.
The end result is, unsurprisingly, the fastest iPhone to-date, whipping between homescreen pages, booting apps in record time, and generally being lag-free.
It's a decision that shows in the end results, with still photos being a significant step up from what the 3GS could produce.
Not only are colors and detail more accurate, but there's less of the cellphone "fuzz" that often works as a giveaway that a cameraphone's smaller lens was involved.
Even without the LED flash, low-light performance is noticeably stronger, with indoor and evening shots losing their murkiness.
The LED flash itself is, like most of its ilk, of limited benefit; there's a relatively narrow sweet-spot in terms of range that, outside of which, images are either over- or under-illuminated, but it's serviceable all the same.
Controls still err on the side of simplicity, with touch-to-focus control, a 5x digital zoom, manual flash settings (that basically amount to on/off and auto) and a shutter release button; we'd love to see a dedicated hardware camera key, since we imagine the iPhone 4 is going to replace a lot more dedicated digicams.
Thanks to the boosted processor speed, both loading up the camera app and actually taking pictures is faster than before, and there's less chance that you'll miss the shot waiting for the iPhone to catch up.
If anything, though, we do think Apple should have bundled iMovie with the iPhone 4 as Nokia are doing with their N8 video editing app, and it's worth noting that the app exports in .MOV format which may need converting to play on devices outside of Apple's ecosystem.
The new version of iOS brings with it Apple's answer to some of the more persistent criticisms of its mobile range, including multitasking support and a unified inbox, and if you're a 3GS owner who finds iOS4's feature list satisfies most complaints you have with your cellphone, you might find trying out the (free) update for a while saves you the cost of upgrading to the iPhone 4.
It works well, overall, though the biggest drawback is that none of the new multitasking functionality is native; apps must be coded specially to take advantage of the APIs and of the caching.
With the App Store now containing in excess of 200,000 titles, homescreen folders are ironically more useful than they sound.
Go heavy on the organization and you can quickly slim down 10+ full homescreen panes to just a couple of screens of folders.
Curiously, though, Apple has limited each folder to just twelve apps, and there's no support for nested folders: putting in a sub-folder to separate out, say, card games from your gaming folder.
It's not the only place we'd like to see improvement, either. iOS4's app switching system is slick - the side-scrolling app manager bar is straightforward to use, and holding down on an icon lets you close it directly - but that only goes to highlight the frustrating pop-up notifications.
Unlike on rival platforms like Android or webOS, there's no way to "ignore" the alert but still have it visible so as to remind you later on that something has changed: instead you have to deal with it there and then, or dismiss it altogether.
We'd also like to see an iPhone 4 version of iPhoto, or at least some basic image editing tools on the handset.
Finally, we wish Apple would broaden its social networking integration, so that as well as emailing or MMS'ing images from the gallery we could upload them to Flickr, Facebook or other online galleries.
In reality we've found the fourth-gen handset manages around 25-percent longer runtime than its predecessor, with mixed use.
We'll also be keeping track of how AT&T handles calls and whether the improvements - both that Apple has made to the iPhone 4 and the carrier claims to have made to their network - make a significant impact.
In short, the switch to making the antennas external has meant that, if a user's hand bridges the two and is sufficiently damp to prove conductive, the iPhone 4 can lose signal dramatically.
Now, some iPhone 4 owners are finding they naturally hold the handset in a way that doesn't cause problems, or that their specific phone isn't as prone to it anyway, but many are discovering they also need to budget for a case.
No matter the changes, AT&T's network continues to frustrate.
We've suffered multiple dropped calls in every day of iPhone 4 use with the US carrier, and as before there's little apparent connection between what's shown in the status bar and what the network is actually capable of sustaining.
Even more frustrating, perhaps, are the recurring "No SIM" errors in which the iPhone 4 and the AT&T MicroSIM seemingly become bored and stop responding to each other.
We're not sure whether it's an Apple hardware issue - we're seeing similar reports from multiple people, though predominantly in the US - or something to do with the carrier's systems, but either way it demands a power-cycle before the two play nicely again.
When you do manage to place a call, there's an impressive improvement in audio quality.
The iPhone 4's dual microphones - used for active noise cancellation - left callers able to hear us even with traffic in the background.
The official Bumper, meanwhile, is more a rubber band than it is a true case: both the front and back are left entirely exposed, with the Bumper stretching around the stainless steel band alone.
Factor in what's undoubtedly an attractive, appealing piece of hardware with excellent imaging skills, sufficient processor grunt to power the latest apps and games, and a display that puts most others to shame, and you're getting to a very tempting package.
With the iPhone 4, however, it's a more clean-cut choice: yes, you can get much of the iOS4 experience on your existing iPhone, but there's also the brilliant Retina Display, far better camera and - antenna holding issues aside - improved wireless performance on offer from the new device.
Our criticisms - such as the absence of photo editing or social network integration - are predominantly aspects that could be addressed in future iterations of iOS4, and it would be naive to assume Apple isn't already looking at where next to take the platform.
Out of the box, though, the iPhone 4 is one of the most polished, appealing smartphones on the market today.
By boosting the camera, upgrading the screen and generally tightening up the whole user experience, Apple has neatly answered most of the complaints from previous models together with addressing some - like the Retina Display - we didn't even know we had.
The antenna issue is frustrating, certainly, but unlikely to be a deal-breaker, and the improvement in battery life is more than welcome; moreover, there's something inherent in the iPhone 4 that goes beyond "just another" phone and demands you engage with it.
Hide details
Change log
bf06eefb1c52 by matt on Nov 19, 2010   Diff
Added another dataset.
Go to: 	
Project members, sign in to write a code review
Older revisions
All revisions of this file
File info
Size: 43943 bytes, 295 lines
View raw file